# CRC-Blog
Blog about CRC Experience

Cloud Resume Challenge Reflection

  I never dreamed that I could do things that were creative. Sadly, I never had much luck with art, crafts, etc so I resigned myself to the idea that I just did not have that side so I had to instead just be a strategic and logical person. Well, here I now having coded my entire resume with HTML and having used things that I never would have imagined such as CSS, JS, python, and etc. 
One of my biggest take-aways from this project would have to be my attention to detail. When I was making changes I made small sloppy mistakes that affected my entire work. Once, I had trouble implementing my Lambda code for my visitor-counter and couldn’t figure out why it would not show up. I eventually had to work with my professor to look over my code which is where it was pointed out that I had not added an “s” to “buckets”. I couldn’t believe that something so small could be the source of countless hours of frustration. The same result occurred when I also didn’t realize that I needed to update and create a new invalidation every time I made a change onto my CloudFront. I need to ensure that I take more time to thoroughly understand what I am doing before I implement it so that I do not make these careless mistakes. When performing an action blindly whilst at the same time trying to understand what it is for slip-ups are bound to happen. 

  I used HTML for the first time to complete this project. For so long I had heard everyone talk about coding HTML for websites but I had never tried to do so. Starting off, it was a steep learning curve since I was not used to the terms in the language but eventually, after researching, my task became further eased. The biggest proponent for my success was finding documentation that I wanted to simulate. Throughout my courses in the computer science program, I have learned that finding how others have solved your problem is the most efficient way to reach change. At first, I was shy to look for answers but I slowly started to realize that it is all that I have done in my educational career. For my resume, I scoured through hundreds of different templates to find one that I felt was presentable. Sadly now, looking at my formatting and presentation, I am not happy with my result but am glad to have learned a bit more about HTML so that I can one-day update/improve my work. I know that I should make sure that I have a working website once I graduate since many people in the technology industry are asked by recruiters and hiring staff for the link as one of their materials. It used to be that you could just submit your resume but now, it is expected for us to have a sort of portfolio of our work that is easily accessible. 
  
   Making the static S3 website wasn’t as difficult as I thought that it would be thanks to the guidance from my professor. Given that our website is static, I found it much easier from the backend to create the required materials. This was when I first really got a taste of using AWS besides my trials with EC2 and it was great to see physical changes occurring. Throughout the process of making the website utilize HTTPS, I was glad that AWS made the process smooth and easy. The CloudFront was something that I was not familiar with at all and at first, was very scared to do simple things such as invalidate the hard work that I had done until I realized that I could always just change my index.html if there were issues. I didn’t know what domain to use since emilychun.com was sadly taken but instead chose to go the literal route of making my domain become emilychunwebsite.com. I thought that the domain would be much more expensive than it was so I was pleasantly surprised and realize that I can easily continue making more websites if I wanted to. The visitor counter drove me insane since I made the mistake I had previously referred as to missing an “s” but I was able to figure it out with a lot of help. 
   
  When I was working on the DynamoDB part of this project, I was confused about what the platform would even accomplish in comparison to the ones that I had already used: EC2, S3, etc. but now realize that the two tables that I have created (visitor and visitor_count) were things that I would need for my cloud resume challenge to be able to call and retrieve the data so that the count would be updated from AWS to the NoSQL database. The API helps data communication to the database and requests from the web when we created dev, general, and qa but only kept dev active. The python code was difficult because I hadn’t taken or coded in the language for about two years but once I started to understand the documentation, it got much easier.
My next issue was with trying to get my resume to be visible on my domain. I for some reason really couldn’t get it to work even when I updated my index.html file, removed the images, and invalidated it on CloudFront. I think the main issue was with my .css file being read.
  Going through the labs step-by-step truly helped me understand cloud computing. This project has allowed me to utilize all the knowledge I have obtained into one tangible and presentable website.
